---
layout: post
title: "Welcome to the homepage of YRM 2018"
---

The Young Researchers' Meeting (YRM) of the European Theoretical 
Spectroscopy Facility (ETSF) is an annual conference organized and 
attended exclusively by researchers without permanent position that 
work on state-of-the-art theoretical and computational methods for the 
study of electronic and optical properties of materials. 

It gives young researchers the chance to present their work, to learn 
novel techniques, to exchange ideas, and to start new collaborations. 
But more importantly, the YRM gives participants the possibility 
to be part of a conference without the usual strong gradient of knowledge 
and experience. 

We take the efforts of organizing such an event mainly 
because we think that it is a unique experience and as much young 
scientists as possible should have the chance to be part of it.


The YRM 2018 will be held from June 4-8 at the CFEL in Hamburg, Germany, 
and will host five topical sessions

<ol>
<li> Old and new approaches towards material design</li>
<li> Theoretical spectroscopy    </li>
<li> Modelling properties of complex systems </li>
<li> Strongly Correlated Electrons, Magnetism, and Topological Phases of 
Matter </li>
<li> Fermion-boson systems in and out of equilibrium </li>
</ol>

We start with common ab initio topics, namely ground state structure (Session I) and excited state structure (Session II) of atomic, molecular and solid state systems. We continue with properties of complex systems (Session III) and exotic states of matter (Session IV and V). Every session will be introduced by a postdoc-level expert, who will provide a bird's-eye view on the topic itself and point out the connections between the different sessions. Thus, it will be easier for participants to not only relate their own work to their field of research but also to locate it in the bigger picture of ab initio research.


Keynote talks at the beginning of each session give the participants an overview of the field, introducing the theoretical framework, state-of-the-art methods and open questions.

In addition to the scientific sessions, the meeting will include a session on the future of scientific publishing with representatives from the newly founded SciPost and Quantum non-profit journals as well as one day dedicated to talks by researchers from the private sector, who will share their experience of working in a non-academic setting.
